Add Board Roles and Projects pages (#41)
python/editorial-board: content/projects.md

---
title: "Projects"
url: "/projects"
summary: "Documentation projects the Editorial Board is leading or shepherding."
hideMeta: true
ShowToc: true
TocOpen: true
---

> **Status: Draft.** This page is a work in progress, started following the
> [June 2026 meeting](/updates/2026-06-09/).

This is the Editorial Board's list of significant documentation projects we are
actively leading or shepherding. It reflects our
[proactive stance](/expectations/#how-we-work-proactive-not-just-reactive):
rather than only reacting to requests, we identify important work and find
people to carry it out.

## How this list works

> - **Every project has a committed lead.** This is not a wish list. A project is

Reviewer: When we say that all listed projects must have a committed lead, do we mean that we require all listed projects to have a project manager or just an EB board member associated with it? I like the idea of only requiring listed projects to have an EB member committed to it. That way, potential project leads have something concrete to say yes to.

  added only when someone has agreed to lead it. If a project loses its lead, it
  moves to [Parking lot](#parking-lot) until a new lead steps up.
- **Each project names its challenges**, not just the goal. Describing the
  hard parts up front helps contributors know what they are taking on.
- **We keep the list short and prioritized** rather than long and
  aspirational, so we can give each project real oversight.

Want to help with a project, or propose a new one? Open an
[issue on this repo](https://github.com/python/editorial-board/issues/new/choose)

> or reach out on [Discord](https://discord.gg/nXkJ2JYvCu).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or reach out in the [Python Docs Discord](https://discord.gg/nXkJ2JYvCu).
```

## Project template

> Copy this block to add a new project.

Reviewer 2: Are we expecting that anyone can make a pull request to add a project here? Perhaps we should be clearer:

```suggestion
Once a project is approved by the Editorial Board, copy this block to add a new project.
```

```markdown
### <Project name>

> - **Lead:** <name — required; no lead, no listing>

Reviewer: We'll need to change this to "EB sponsor" if we decide that having an EB sponsor is enough to start a project.

We could follow this process:
- EB member claims a project
- EB member tries to find a project lead in the community:
  - EB member finds a project lead and supports them through the project
  - EB member does not find a project lead within a particular amount of time and then commits to being the project lead

That way, when an EB member commits to a project, they are committing to be a project lead if necessary but will first try to recruit a project lead from the community. We would need to set a time limit for recruiting a project lead from the community.

- **Status:** Proposed | Active | Blocked | Done

> - **Summary:** One or two sentences on what this project delivers.

Reviewer 2: I don't see a reason to limit this to two sentences. Or leave this as-is, but also add a "Description" section that can be longer with as much detail as needed.

Reviewer: I like the idea of having both a short summary and a complete description. The short summary shows that there is a "there" there. The complete description lets contributors know what they're in for.

- **Why it matters:** Who benefits and why this is worth doing now.
- **Challenges / risks:** The hard parts — technical blockers, dependencies,
  unknowns, things that could derail it.
- **How to help:** Concrete ways a contributor can get involved.
- **Links:** Relevant issues, PRs, discussions, or docs.

> ```

Reviewer: Do we want to add acceptance criteria to the project definition? It could make the project definition more concrete and helpful for people who haven't yet osmosed enough information about Python's docs to fill in the gaps themselves.

## Active projects

_None listed yet. Add projects here using the template above._

<!--
Example seeded from recent meetings — fill in a committed lead before promoting
to "Active":

### Split up the datetime documentation

- **Lead:** _TBD — needs a committed lead_
- **Status:** Proposed
- **Summary:** Break the large `datetime` reference page into more focused
  pages, and move the strftime/strptime format codes to their own page.
- **Why it matters:** `datetime.rst` is among the ten largest files in the docs;
  it mixes reference and tutorial-style content. More focused pages improve
  navigation, SEO, and discoverability (including by LLMs).
- **Challenges / risks:** Existing external links will break — depends on the
  redirect mechanism being worked on in the Docs WG (Petr). Some readers value
  a single page they can Ctrl-F (per feedback from Paul Ganssle). Needs
  coordination with in-flight PRs (#125009, #132524) and with Stan.
- **How to help:** Help define the page split, draft an overall tutorial,

>   separate reference from tutorial content.

Reviewer 3: Leaving this note here since there isn't an issue or other clear place to do it.

I've also been thinking about this for a while, especially with the recent update to the format codes.

> and move the strftime/strptime format codes to their own page.

This is interesting, but it would disconnect them from their APIs, which I would find a little odd. However, the table also applies to `time.stptime` (and partially `time.strftime`) and a slightly dated copy is duplicated in the `time` module docs. I'm working on tidying this up soon.

> mixes reference and tutorial-style content.

I think the current structure is reasonable: we introduce an object, cover its API in detail, and follow with a small cookbook

> depends on the redirect mechanism being worked on in the Docs WG

I opened a PR for this: https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/151113 :-)

> draft an overall tutorial

I'm not sure a tutorial is the best use of our limited time. There are many tutorials on the internet already, I don't think an "official" one will be particularly special.

Reviewer 2: This is a great example of the kinds of difficult decisions that have to be made for projects that seem simple at first glance.

I'm a proponent of doing the work a few times and being thoughtful about the decisions being made along the way, then ideally codifying those decisions as guidelines that others can follow to make future changes easier.
